Morocco are one of Africa's major forces in the Africa Cup of Nations.

Historically, Morocco participated in the AFCON much later than other North African states. However, once Morocco made their debut in 1972, Morocco emerged and became a fearsome power of the tournament, becoming the second North African side to win the AFCON at 1976.[1] However, ever since the win, Morocco's best performance was only runners-up in 2004.[2] Morocco therefore, became the underachiever in the AFCON, in spite of their rich, prestigious records.

Morocco was initially scheduled to host the 2015 Africa Cup of Nations, but was later ruled out after the fear of Ebola outbreak controversy

orocco are heading to the Africa Cup of Nations with unprecedented expectation resting on their shoulders. The tournament, initially due to take place last summer but postponed by the Confederation of African Football (Caf) because of the rainy season in the host country, Ivory Coast, will be marked by the Atlas Lions trying to follow up a historic World Cup and add to a legacy that has eclipsed any other African nation.


Drawn in Group F along with Tanzania, DR Congo and Zambia, Morocco are heavy favourites for the tournament. In Qatar, they became the first African country to make the competition’s semi-finals, topping a group containing Belgium, Croatia and Canada before eliminating Spain and Portugal to reach the last four.

In contrast Morocco have lifted one Afcon trophy, in 1976, in 19 appearances. A disappointing haul given that the country has the best footballing infrastructure on the continent, funded by King Mohammed VI. Unlike many of their African counterparts, the federation is well run and they boast an abundance of talents who play club football at the highest level in Europe. One final and two semi-final appearances in almost five decades are a poor return for a country often tipped as one of the favourites. In recent Afcon editions, worse teams with far fewer resources have gone on to triumph.